HA - Smart Routing doc updates (#1139)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/clients/pages/java.adoc

The above code line releases all the used resources and closes connections to the cluster.

=== Java Cluster Routing Modes

The Java cluster routing mode specifies how the client connects to the cluster.

NOTE: In previous releases, this functionality was known as the client operation mode and could be configured as smart or unisocket. 
If the cluster routing mode is not configured in your client, the configured client operation mode is used.

The mode that you use depends on your network requirements due to the distributed nature of the data and cluster.

In all modes, the following information is provided to the client on initial connection:

* Cluster version
* Member details, including instance name, IP or UUID, partition group information, CP membership status, and type ({enterprise-product-name} only)
* Partition group information ({enterprise-product-name} only)
* CP group leader information ({enterprise-product-name} with `Advanced CP` enabled only) 

The client is updated whenever the cluster version, partition groups, or CP group leader changes.

> From {enterprise-product-name} 5.5, you can use any of the following cluster routing modes:

Reviewer: Did this get addressed somewhere?

> From {enterprise-product-name} 5.5, you can use any of the following cluster routing modes:

Author: I added that it can currently only be used with Java clients (I omitted the C# being WIP, as that is not applicable to the current release)

Do we need to say more? I can make it a Note to give more prominence, if you think that would be more visible...

> From {enterprise-product-name} 5.5, you can use any of the following cluster routing modes:

Reviewer: This is fine, thanks, I just couldn't find it straight away so wanted to make sure it was covered 👍

> * Legacy **Smart** and **Unisocket** client operation modes. For information on these modes and their configuration, select **5.4** from the version picker at the top of the navigation pane. Ensure that the cluster routing mode is not configured to use the configured client operation mode

Author: My original thinking was for people who already had it configured (a) to see how they can update their configuration if preferred, and (b) in case they wanted to change their current configuration/add a client with the legacy options 

However, I have no strong feelings on it, so long as the information is there, they should be able to find it ;-)

+
In `ALL_MEMBERS` cluster routing mode, clients connect to each cluster member. 
+
Since each xref:overview:data-partitioning.adoc[data partition] uses the well known and consistent hashing algorithm,
each client can send an operation to the cluster member that owns the partition that holds their data,
which increases the overall throughput and efficiency.

* **SINGLE_MEMBER** 
+
In `SINGLE_MEMBER` cluster routing mode, clients only connect to one of the configured addresses. This is the equivalent of the legacy **Unisocket** client operation mode.
+
In some environments, clients must connect to only a single member instead of to each member in the cluster; 
for example, this can be enforced due to firewalls, security, or a custom network consideration.
In these environments, `SINGLE_MEMBER` mode allows to you connect to a single member, while retaining the ability to work with other members in the cluster.
+
The single connected member behaves as a gateway to the other members.
When the client makes a request, the connected member redirects the request to the relevant member and
returns the response from that member to the client.

* **MULTI_MEMBER** 
+

> This mode provides most of the functionality of `ALL_MEMBERS` mode over a single paritition group, falling back to the more restricted behavior

Author: Update when relevant; coming soon is marketing's job - the docs should just cover what can be done in the documented release

of `SINGLE_MEMBER` mode for members outside that partition group as follows:
+
** The client can connect to all members in the defined partition group
** Outside the visible partition group, a member in the defined partition group acts as a gateway to the other members in the cluster

+
--
In `MULTI_MEMBER` cluster routing mode, the client connection flow is as follows:

. Connect to the first member 
The client then has visibility of the partition group associated with the first member. 

. Read the partition group information
. Connect to a limited subset of the cluster as defined by the partition grouping
The client does not have visibility to any cluster members outside this partition group.
--

The following diagram shows how each mode connects to members in a cluster:

> image:ROOT:client-routing.png[Hazelcast Cluster Routing diagram]

Author: MIRO; file is [here](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVKLc12CA=/?share_link_id=424185939417)

The above code line releases all the used resources and closes connections to the cluster.

> === Java Cluster Routing Modes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Java Client Cluster Routing Modes
```
Thoughts? Probably redundant since this is in the client doc page, but it had "Client" in the title before and may avoid some confusion

Since each xref:overview:data-partitioning.adoc[data partition] uses the well known and consistent hashing algorithm,
each client can send an operation to the cluster member that owns the partition that holds their data,
which increases the overall throughput and efficiency.
+
If <<configuring-direct-to-leader-routing, CP direct-to-leader routing>> is enabled on your clients, and the `ADVANCED_CP`

> license is present on your Enterprise cluster, then clients in this routing mode are able to leverage this to send CP operations

Author: ````suggestion
license is present on your Enterprise cluster, then clients in this routing mode can use this to send CP operations
````

            <ports>34600</ports>
            <ports>34700-34710</ports>
        </outbound-ports>

>         <smart-routing>true</smart-routing>

Reviewer: Comment for visibility / reminder for me to update this later (entire page, but I'll only leave this 1 comment to not pollute the PR)

the acknowledgment of the operation's backup is sent to the client by the backup
replica member(s). This improves the performance of the client operations.

If using the `ALL_MEMBERS` cluster routing mode, backup acknowledgement to the client is enabled by default.

> However, neither the `MULTI-MEMBER` nor the `SINGLE_MEMBER` cluster routing modes support backup acknowledgement to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, neither the `MULTI_MEMBER` nor the `SINGLE_MEMBER` cluster routing modes support backup acknowledgement to the client.
```

In the declarative configuration, the element `ports` can be used for
both single and multiple port definitions.

==== Configure Cluster Routing Mode

You can configure the cluster routing mode to suit your requirements, as described in <<java-cluster-routing-modes,Java Cluster Routing Modes>>.

The following examples show the configuration for each cluster routing mode. 

[NOTE]
==== 

> * If you are using the `smart` or `unisocket` client operation modes, select **5.4** from the version picker above the navigation pane to see the configuration information. The cluster routing mode described below must not be present in your configuration

Reviewer: Again, do we want to encourage use of a deprecated option in the 5.5 docs?

Author: Moved to end and made into a tip

----
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ClientNetworkConfig networkConfig = clientConfig.getNetworkConfig();
networkConfig.setClusterRoutingMode(ALL_MEMBERS);
----

**SINGLE_MEMBER**

To connect to a single member, which can be used as a gateway to the other members, use the `SINGLE_MEMBER` cluster routing mode, which can be defined as described below.

When using the `SINGLE_MEMBER` cluster routing mode, consider the following:

* The absence of <<configuring-backup-acknowledgement, backup acknowledgements>>, as the client does not have a view of the entire cluster
* If you have multiple members on a single machine, we advise that <<configuring-address-list,explicit ports are set for each member>>

> * Connections to the xref:cp-subsystem:cp-subsystem.adoc[CP Subsystem] are direct-to-leader, which can result in improved performance

Reviewer: This is only true if the client is explicitly set to connect to a CP group leader - and CP group leaders are defined algorithmically at runtime, so it's not possible to accurate predict which member will be a leader

* <<configuring-load-balancer,`LoadBalancer`>> configuration is ignored

Declarative Configuration:

[tabs] 
==== 
XML:: 
+ 
-- 
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast-client>
    ...
    <network>
        </cluster-routing mode="SINGLE_MEMBER">
    </network>
    ...
</hazelcast-client>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast-client:
  network:
    cluster-routing:
      mode: SINGLE_MEMBER
----
====

Programmatic Configuration:

[source,java]
----
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ClientNetworkConfig networkConfig = clientConfig.getNetworkConfig();
networkConfig.setClusterRoutingMode(SINGLE_MEMBER);
----

**MULTI_MEMBER**

> To connect to a subset partition grouping, which allows direct connection to the specified group and gateway connections to other members, use the `MULTI_MEMBER` cluster routing mode, which can be defined as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to a subset partition grouping of members, which allows direct connection to the specified group and gateway connections to other members, use the `MULTI_MEMBER` cluster routing mode, which can be defined as follows.
```

> To use the `MULTI-MEMBER` cluster routing mode, you must also define the grouping strategy to apply. For further information on configuring partition groups, see xref:clusters:partition-group-configuration.adoc[]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the `MULTI_MEMBER` cluster routing mode, you must also define the grouping strategy to apply. For further information on configuring partition groups, see xref:clusters:partition-group-configuration.adoc[]. 
```

Reviewer: Alongside my previous comment about whether or not we should discuss the possibility of new grouping strategies in the future, the default value will be `PARTITION_GROUPS` so long as it's the only option available, so if we do decide we don't want to talk about the future possibilities, maybe we can exclude the grouping strategy for simplicity? cc @gareth-johnston wdyt?

Reviewer: In a previous comment we agreed that "coming soon" is marketing's job - given that `MULTI_MEMBER` only supports partition group (which is the default value), maybe we simplify the docs here and only talk about enabling with `MULTI_MEMBER`, and ignore the `routing-strategy` in docs until it becomes relevant?

When using the `MULTI_MEMBER` cluster routing mode, consider the following:

* The <<handling-client-configuration-failure,handling of connection failures>>, which failover to another partition group where one is available. 
No retry attempt is made to connect to the lost member(s) 
+
In a split and heal scenario, where the client has no access to other group members, the client is re-assigned to the initial group. 
+
In a scenario where all group members are killed alomost simultateously, the client loses connection but reconnects when a member starts again.

* The absence of <<configuring-backup-acknowledgement, backup acknowledgements>>, as the client does not have a view of the entire cluster

> * Connections to the xref:cp-subsystem:cp-subsystem.adoc[CP Subsystem] are direct-to-leader, which can result in improved performance

Reviewer: See previous comment regarding this line

In a scenario where all group members are killed almost simultateously, the client loses connection but reconnects when a member starts again.

* The absence of <<configuring-backup-acknowledgement, backup acknowledgements>>, as the client does not have a view of the entire cluster
If <<configuring-direct-to-leader-routing, CP direct-to-leader routing>> is enabled on your clients, and the `ADVANCED_CP` license

> is present on your Enterprise cluster, then clients in this routing mode are able to leverage this to send CP operations directly

Author: ````suggestion
is present on your Enterprise cluster, then clients in this routing mode can use this to send CP operations directly
````

leadership changes occur.

CP data structure reads and writes must be actioned by the CP leader responsible for the group involved. By leveraging
direct to leader routing for CP operations, clients will be able to send all operations directly to their group leaders,
cutting out the need for intermediate hops through other cluster members. This allows clients to achieve lower latency and
higher throughput for their CP operations, while also reducing the pressure on the internal cluster network, resulting in
greater cluster stability.

This functionality is disabled by default and must be explicitly enabled. This is done because you should consider your
specific use-case for CP operation sending and assess the impact of direct to leader routing on your topology. In scenarios
where clients have increased latency to CP group leaders, it may be detrimental to route all operations directly to them
instead of using a faster internal cluster link and routing through another member. It should also be considered that
direct to leader routing can put uneven pressure on the cluster if CP group leaders receive substantially more load than

> other members of the cluster - this is particularly problematic when only 1 CP group leader is present.

Author: ````suggestion
other members of the cluster - this is particularly problematic when only one CP group leader is present.
````

See xref:extending-hazelcast:discovery-spi.adoc[Discovery SPI] for more information.

|`hazelcast.discovery.public.ip.enabled`
|false
|bool
|Enables the discovery joiner to use public IPs from `DiscoveredNode`.
See xref:extending-hazelcast:discovery-spi.adoc[Discovery SPI] for more information.
When set to `true`, the client assumes that it needs to use public IP addresses reported by the members.
When set to `false`, the client always uses private addresses reported by the members. If it is `null`,
the client will try to infer how the discovery mechanism should be based on the reachability of the members.

> This inference is not %100 reliable and may result in false-negatives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This inference is not 100% reliable and may result in false-negatives.
```

|-1
|int
|Controls the number of I/O input threads. Defaults to -1, i.e., the system decides.
If the client is using either the `ALL_MEMBERS` or the `MULTI_MEMBER` cluster routing mode, it defaults to 3, otherwise it defaults to 1.

|`hazelcast.client.io.output.thread.count`
|-1
|int
|Controls the number of I/O output threads. Defaults to -1, i.e., the system decides.

> If the client is using either the `ALL_MEMBERS` or the `MULTI_MEMBER` cluster routing mode, it defaults to 3, otherwise it defaults to 1.

Reviewer: Flagging to verify, same as previous comment regarding I/O threads

Reviewer: Confirmed this information is accurate
